# Inverse Kinematics Based Chess-Playing-Robotic-arm-development


Chess is one of the most popular board games played worldwide. It is set as the benchmark for human intelligence and decision-making skills.  With the growing knowledge and studies in artificial intelligence, there has been a significant increase in the demand for autonomous robots which is capable of understanding the game environment and executing independent moves. It is the creation of the human mind that integrates real-time object detection and image processing with path planning and arm movement. To design a robotic arm that can play chess autonomously presents several challenges. This requires reliable integration of computer vision algorithms,  inverse kinematics, and strong servo control. Though the work done in artificial intelligence has kept on improving in the past few decades, there are still miles to go. Conventional solutions are often built upon expensive robotic platforms and often rely on external computational devices. Even the accuracy of the computer vision models can be improved. The traditional servos utilizing PWM, having low torque and resolution, can also be worked on. To cater to these challenges, this paper proposes to design and implement an autonomous chess-playing robotic arm with improved accuracy of chess piece detection using YOLOv5, real-time chess board detection, and integrating it to an inverse kinematics-controlled ESP32 servo drive board, using Waveshare ST3215 servos, while maintaining portability.
